we're going to do predictions about the
future as Yogi bar said it's hard to
make predictions especially about the
future but if you make a thousand
predictions one of them will come true
are the Jetson the most accurate
prediction of the near future we have if
you go to the Twilight Zone in its day
and you look at sort of the disturbing
stories that it told and it didn't
always have a happy ending and you fast
forward to Black Mirror which has an
authentic science fiction future found
to it all right what's your best
prediction that within 25 years there
will be a professional sport played in
orbit Spaceball
[Music]
SP this is Star Talk special edition
Neil degrass Tyson your personal
astrophysicist we got a full house today
first Gary O'Reilly Gary how you doing
man I'm good oh good Chuck Nice how you
doing man I'm doing well man your hair
is looking especially qua it's very
crisp todayis today yes I uh I actually
microwaved
it and then I put it on people don't
realize this is this is a Steve Harvey
wig no no they don't even real come on
player anyway it's it's rocking like a
mini version of a 1978 that's exactly
what I was going for I was going for
straight up Jim Brown give something out
of the 7s step right off the screen yep
success there you go work on some come
back and you can say you're Jim Brown
sorry um I'm Jim tan so we're going to
do predictions yeah about the future
which I think is the only way you can
make a prediction right and there's some
stuff I don't tackle alone I got to go
to geek and chief oh geek and chief
there's only one geek and chief we know
who that is that is Charles Lou friend
and colleague Charles Neil dude great to
see you okay I also m waved my hair
today just leave your brain out thing is
fine so you're professor at cuni Staten
Island City University of New York which
has satellite campuses across the city
yes and you're in Staten Island and you
you finally no longer have
administrative duties there is that
correct H were that the case forever is
that the same as is that the same as
quiet quitting not the same no
professors we're very lucky as we're
very lucky as professors because we can
continually take on positions and leave
them and not leave our jobs so I could
be a department chair for a period of
time and leave I could run an honors
program and then leave I could even
serve as an acting Dean or other
administrator and then leave and still
I'd retain my ability to come back and
do the research and the coursework and
the teaching that I love each of those
they give you a little bump up in the in
the mul one H one H every place is a
little bit different so we've got you
here because you think long and hard and
deep about predictions made in sci-fi
you probably have some predictions of
your own the accuracy of these
predictions and what they might have
looked like at the time and what they
look like to us with the benefit of
hindsight well so so we're g to we're
going to get all in this yeah I think
it's good but I think we should first
say right away for everybody that first
say right away that you host a podcast
called the lunaverse that's what we
should say right away oh it's very sweet
thank you the Lou Universe Charles Lou
you see what he did there I didn't do it
it was my family members not the Lou the
bathroom Charles Lou but he's Charles
Lou so it's the Lou nerse no no no I
can't take any credit the name we talk
to scientists who are earlier in their
careers we talk about people who are
doing all the hard work and trying
different things not just necessarily
what we think of as a straightup science
stuff but also thinking about the future
thinking about pop science culture
things that we like to talk about here
on Star talk but on a level for I got
you and a lot of fresh unvarnished ideas
come out of that first
generation some of them can change the
world right as you know Neil the really
tough new Pioneer techniques are always
done by our younger colleagues we can
have great ideas and we like oh darn it
if only someone had a a way a technology
a tool that could solve these problems
and then some guy comes along some lady
comes along and says yeah I know how to
do that and and they just bring
something new and that's how changes
happen it's no accident that some of the
best discoveries the the Nobel Awards
come from people in their 20s and their
30s award much later yeah well they made
their discoveries in their 20s right
exactly you know they did a study on
that that you're more likely to think in
a way that will lead to innovation in
your late teens and 20s than at any
other point in your life that's right
which is why when we here are talking
about predictions it's not so much our
predictions but what we're predicting
other people will do in the future
that's important distinction interesting
when we think about it from a scientific
perspective we don't want to say so much
predictions as models right we are
taking what knowledge we have now and
modeling it for the future and models
are always wrong but sometimes they're
useful and therefore we have the
opportunity to think about the future
and inform and educate
right Gary set the stage here okay so in
your book Star Messenger in the chapter
at the end of exploration Discovery you
kind of go on a F's errand and make raft
of predictions for the year 2050 did he
just call me a fool no would you kick
his ass
over can it
wait okay a Fool's errand yes we so
we're not going to wait 25 years to find
out if they true let me set that up so
the whole a big part of that chapter
titled exploration and Discovery is an
exercise in what do people think would
be discovered or how differently did
they think they'd be living in one era
versus one generation later and I just I
tightened it to 30 years so I go 30y
year increments from 1870 up to 2020 and
everybody's getting everything wrong all
the time of course okay and so I said
time for me to join the list and I'm
going to make predictions for 2050 so
that in 2050 people can look back and
see everything I got wrong so that I'm
not but I I don't I disagree I don't
think that these um predictions are
wrong I think they're inaccurate and
there's a big difference don't get all
all semantic
actually no get semantic get
semantic teacher on this exam I didn't
get anything wrong it was just inate oh
my God now you know how all my teachers
hated we can we can explore that finish
setting this up where do we go for our
predictions the tried and trusted
sources we'll have a look at that um are
the people that are making these
predictions or writing examples are they
in fact the influencers of the future
that are B in the past or if we leave it
alone does the future take care of
itself we'll get into all the sort of
philos philosophical thoughts about that
but first and foremost do you mean if we
didn't predict the future so that there
was no groundwork for new ideas would
that would future still have a place to
land where it's still unfold still
unfold so let's look to science let's
look to science fiction as our goto for
what our lives might well be back I mean
I'll kick it off the Jets and
Judy who can make the sound who can make
the sound of
the that's there you go there you go
that's that's every flying car in the
J so this this was made in the early 60s
1960s but it's set in
2062 so it's not that far away from
where the future but where we sit today
it's not that fast so you've got flying
cars there's a robot in every house
MH yes in some in some places that's the
that's the case first of all we do have
flying cars we have them now um they're
just quadcopters but they're flying cars
and if you go to Japan you're going to
find pretty much some kind of robot in
every robots everywhere so in fact are
the Jetson the most accurate prediction
of the near future we have or do we have
to look in other places for accuracy so
I found this recently was it the year
2020 I was looking for years predicted
for the future that are already in our
past and in the Jetson I think George
Jetson you can triangulate based on
certain script lines that he was born in
the year 2020 oh really yeah okay yeah
cool kind of the Jetson was The Other
Extreme of baby GE Jon pandemic baby did
he know he did he know I think it was 20
it might have been 2021 but it was it
somewhere in that window somewhere in
there that's first point so here's what
I think they got wrong they
didn't understand that a robot can be
anything that does something that you
wouldn't otherwise do right any task any
task any task so he's still flying his
flying car he doesn't push a button and
say take me to work and have the car do
the work as we have today and by the way
if you have a Rob bot who can run your
home you D go can have a car that will
just take you to work right so they
missed the fact that a robot did not
have have to have any humanoid features
this is the same with Isaac asimov's ey
robot which predates the Jetson yeah
okay an IR robot the robots are humanoid
yeah and that's not necessary because it
assumes the human form is something you
want to emulate and there's a lot lot of
stuff we don't do well make a machine do
it better so all I'm saying is I don't
think they thought about a self-driving
car which is itself a form of robot yeah
if you ever seen an Amazon uh Warehouse
yeah it's full of robots autonomous and
they're just all boxes yeah they're all
boxes just moving around moving stuff
moving boxes but they're all robots
right everyone and you know where
they're going we going to put it and
they have their ID and the thing now
what you don't know is what those robots
do when you leave
could be a Quantum thing right the
secret life of robot The Secret Life of
robot like while you're looking at them
they're looking like they're busy right
you look away right then they're
partying they're out the back with a
cigarette just
like I love that you have a book on
Quantum the handy quantum physics answer
answer book V yes in a series that's not
your first rodeo I've done handy
astronomy handy physics and right now
handy Quantum is it like Quantum Physics
for Dummies well I assume that you guys
aren't dummies
see that's where you make a mistake no
no no that's biggest mistake quantum
physics is not any harder than classical
physics different and strange so all I'm
trying to tell people by calling it an
handy answer book is that don't think of
it as this thing that's really difficult
think of it as just you can flip to it
and like a manual it's like riding a
bicycle or putting together a piece of
furniture Quantum manual so I want the
robots in the Amazon Fulfillment centers
to two Quantum States one where they're
busy and the other one where they
Outback smokig who came up with
fulfillment
center as a term I don't know it feels
right Rob from a long time robot the
robots it's a warehouse um it's a
warehouse It's become a ful Rob give me
a word here I Sear's robot catalog from
more than a hundred years ago had these
warehous nothing but Amazon that's right
it but it's they had human beings
filling things and at some point in the
mid 20th century the marketing decided
to call that instead of a warehouse
calling it a fulfillment center and so
the idea was that was uh we think it was
Sears but um certainly all the other big
stor time had that information I mean
and sometimes you say things but you
know sometimes I have fact checked you
behind your back please no no I have to
I have to do my and and and you're
always you're always right on point when
you say something like yeah so 100 years
ago just like get the out of here wait
Chuck I got do my once per show reaction
go ahead why do you know
this okay but that was early in this
show oh my gosh I don't know if I have
more than one in me well I think Charles
does keep going wa also also with the
maid Rosie the maid yeah she's right
first it's female right so there still
the genderized robot that was sexist and
with the with the little apron French a
French so she was a sexy
robot if we look at the movies and
generally you you're thinking about
major budgets for production yeah things
don't always work out you take the 1982
Blade Runner movie Harrison Ford
remember that based on I don't know what
it yes based on a novel by do Android's
Dream of Electric Sheep by Philip K dick
yep well thank you and when did he write
that well early 50s right was it quite
early yeah so it was set in 201
9 the original the original movie right
the movie yeah the 82 but so much of it
doesn't land true none of it I mean we
have hindsight which obviously is
perfect right but uh you're thinking
about their humanoid and their offworld
replicant yeah doesn't exist didn't
happen replicants right that's did not
happen so we're not off world no we
don't have perfectly humanoid replicants
right and the sun sometimes shines right
however we were living in a dystopia so
that is a thing and the dystopian future
is debatable yeah I I I have my issues
with dystopian Futures because it
assumes that whatever the trend line is
in a in a culture in a civilization that
it continues to descend without anybody
doing anything about it at any time
right not the public not the politicians
not the military nothing it just
continues to descend and hits rock
bottom and then they make a movie out of
it I have a very uh very quick it can
happen locally I have a very theory on
why that happens why they do it that way
because most dystopian Futures are a
warning against uh authoritarianism well
said and that's why that's St that's why
it's authoritarians can can take it down
the toilet that's right and that's why
that's why it's like that's why they're
always written that way here's an
interesting go on thing that is going
that happened in Blade Runner that we're
kind of doing today all right all right
do you remember the scene very tense
scene where one of the replicants who's
trying to pass as human is getting
interviewed by someone who's task it is
to identify the replicants who are no
longer presenting themselves as
replicants and the replicants are so
good that they have to go through a
series of questions where they're
testing his the dilation of his eyes and
his emotional reactions to certain
situations oh yes sh psych profile yes
yes yes and there's a point where he's
he's like he can't react in a way a
human being would or would be expected
to my point is today when people show me
stuff written by chat gbt I'm analyzing
that if they don't tell me that I'm
analyzing it for is there a human
emotion in here that's authentic or is
this replicated by something that thinks
it can be human I'm doing the same thing
yes right yeah You are conducting the
touring test in real time but a better
not yeah a really deep Discerning
version more Discerning version tell me
about the touring test tell everybody
Turing the famous guy right who helped
create computers and so forth heing yeah
yes it would be important for us to
figure out whether or not an machine has
become truly intelligent by seeing if
you can tell the difference between the
responses of a machine and the responses
of a human being being without seeing
who's behind the curtain right and from
there you develop all the details right
the Turing test as a general idea became
specific about like for example the
things you're talking about right Neil
analyzing text or analyzing responses
like in Blade Runner and so in a sense
it was a predictive strategy to try to
figure out whether something is what you
think it is or whether not a test more
for so much intelligence as
Consciousness it depends yeah I was
going to say different versions does it
make if if machines are intelligent does
it really make a difference well that
depends on what you think intelligence
some dumbass people and if a computer
was dumb ass that would mean they're not
that's what I'm saying they're not a
computer exactly we don't get rid of
dumbass people just because they
stupid you know so why can't we have
stupid
computer and by the way we do have
smartphones and dumb phones like we're
moving in that anyway but this is our
own bias against what is intelligent and
what is not right when we judge a person
to be stupid that person's still very
intelligent there's intelligence that
person can adapt that person is likely
conscious that person is likely able to
figure out puzzles and so forth but we
claim that they're stupid because
somehow they didn't get a joke that we
told or that we they couldn't solve a
math problem things like that says the
comedian hit it on the head
right that's the measure comedic Turing
test did you laugh at my joke did you
laugh at my joke you dumb it well
there's an episode of the classic Batman
TV show where Robin and Batman try to
test whether there's a robot or not and
what happened was that Batman and Robin
told a super funny joke which that robot
was supposed to laugh at and since robot
that's right they were trying to test
whether this was a robot or not and when
the thing did laugh they ripped his head
off and he went because Batman just told
him a super funny joke and he didn't
laugh so we knew that it was a robot so
you are the ultimate test Chuck you and
your colleagues inell about actual
Consciousness punchline backman we don't
recommend pulling the heads off audience
members that don't laugh at your that
was the only part of the story I lik
around I know something that maybe
Charles does not know uhoh you know many
things I do not know let me enjoy this
moment we got competitive touring
obviously did not call it the touring
test correct do you know what he called
it I do not
remember did you ever know I might have
he called it I'm not intelligent enough
he called it the imitation game oh hence
the name of the movie the title of the
movie which profiled his life that's
awesome with Kira nly Benedict
Cumberbatch Benedict Cumberbatch oh it's
a good lineup Sherlock Holmes I got to
watch this movie you never se you ever
seen this is the first I ever heard of
it to be honest both the touring story
and the movie I mean it's his life story
becomes tragic don't give it away for
I'm not I've just let him think it has a
happy alert please so where else do we
go I mean there a series like
historically The Twilight Zone
absolutely that picks our interest The
Outer Limits limits and we move through
into more recently the Black Mirror yeah
what's his name Charlie
Charlie Booker who is brilliant so just
to contrast the two I think they both
they both leave you emotionally spent
and Disturbed at the end also if you go
to the Twilight Zone in its day and you
look at sort of the disturbing stories
that it told and it didn't always have a
happy ending yeah this not the Ray
Bradbury kind of school of s I need you
to think yes and if you look at Rod
Sterling comment on his show he said
look well at the end of the day we're
just selling soap all right so how do
you sell soap in a way that people don't
feel offended or whatever and he says if
you said it in a fictionalized world
where that's clearly not your world then
you can tell stories of people oh that's
just happening in that world and later
on they pause and say wait a minute that
was me or that was my friend or my
neighbor or that's how I behaved and so
he was a Storyteller par excellance in
that genre
and especially like I said the
disturbing feature of so many of those
and you fast forward to Black Mirror
which has an authentic science fiction
future always Foundation to it yes but
but highlight what that future is
because some people might not know the
future is this where black Mir is a
Netflix yeah I believe it's on Netflix
it's third season the fourth season the
future is highly techn technologically
driven it's driven everything is driven
by technology but the stories are about
about how we respond to the
technological advancements it's really
never about the technology itself very
good uh it's always about our human
nature and how it is affected by the
technology and one thing that they do
which is just only a little Out Of Reach
in our
imaginings is in that future which
prevails in almost all episodes because
they share the same universe right like
the news that's on the TV is the same
news casters that you see in multiple so
they're they're in the same world right
what they all have in common is that the
human mind is accessible right in the
way hard drives are accessible exactly
and and often meshed in in the way right
the way hard drives are connected go
into someone's head rewind an event
experience what they saw see what they
see through their eyes pull it back out
manipulate it right uh that's that's a
whole Frontier of Storytelling that's
been unplumbed but when you think about
it it's it's a frontier of Storytelling
but it is also a different facet of
reality because the way you experience
something even though we experience the
exact same thing is totally different
from the way I experience it and so what
he does is he blurs the lines between
individual realities Collective
realities and
a technologically measured reality which
is brilliant because I can look around
this room and I'm seeing everything as
it is seen through my the truck filter
my my filter but I'm also seeing it
through human eyes as opposed to like
the eyes of you know an eagle or an owl
I'm also or Jordy or Jordy right where I
was the next where I was going but what
I can't do is see it Through The Eyes of
like an infrared meter you know so all
those realities exist at the same time
though and that's what makes them so
brilliant I love so the idea that you
can download your brain and put it on a
computer everyone's talking about that
Black Mirror makes it real yeah and it's
scary when you see scary he does and you
see the nefarious ways people well the
way they'll manipulate it and the way
that really explores the darker side of
our human nature one of my favorite
episodes m is there's a guy and he
thinks that um he's been in some kind of
accident he's in a log cabin and another
guy shows up and he's just like hey man
and he's like kind of nursing him back
to health he thinks he's been injured
and then he gets him to
admit that he murdered his family or
some some crazy thing that he did WOW
only to find out that he was in a
simulation and he was under
interrogation by the police oh wow and
then what they did after words was they
punished him by leaving him in the
simulation for a simulated hundred years
oh my goodness so that he would come out
of his prison sentence thinking that he
had been uh in prison for 100 years when
really he had only been in prison for
whatever the time dilation mentally was
for him maybe it been a year but he
would thought think he served a 100 so
do we all think this is our future no it
it has a possibility why why feels real
enough it it feels like we're headed
there the reason I don't think this
thing will work is simply because we are
assuming that intelligence and
perceptions and so forth can be so fully
controlled that we can't tell the
difference between a reality and what is
not real we already know that our brains
can be fooled right we already know that
so technology is not going to change
anything in that respect unless we allow
it to happen and so I don't think that
adding technology here uh never mind the
idea of whether or not our intelligence
is actually digitized right if it's a
Quantum situation then you can never
pass cuits uh and digitize is something
called the no cloning theorem that makes
that very difficult so you wind up with
a circumstance I was going to say now
you got to stop I was you got to stop
man you got to bring it back to the no
cloning theorem because you can't just
walk just walk past that you walk by and
just like drop that down just like oh
here's the no cloning theorem boom all
right I'm moving on like well okay the
no cloning theorem is just one of many
different pieces of quantum Computing
sort of like the laws of quantum
Computing the same way that isof had
Laws of Robotics this particular one the
no cloning theorem means that if you
have a Quantum bit of information you
can't just make as many copies of it as
you'd like you can't make copies so like
us we can digitize a photograph taking
little little pixels and then make each
pixel exactly the same as another pixel
on a hard drive or a USB stick or
something and then you get an exact copy
of the previous picture absolutely right
no cloning theorem says that for Quantum
information you can't do that so anytime
you have some why wouldn't you be able
to do that with a cubit as as opposed to
bits and bites which we're able to do it
with as soon as you read a cubit uh it
is destroyed that makes sense because it
existed in a super position to be with
yes right so the so the moment that you
actually realize the super position all
other positions are made null and void
at that particular instance that's a
great way to describe it so damn so you
damn
Chuck give that man a a degree can you
only capture a freeze frame of that your
Consciousness at a certain time because
if you were to do it 5 minutes
afterwards it would potentially be
different that is one consequence of
this no cloning idea right you can know
what you are this very moment but you
cannot know what is the next moment the
moment after that the moment after that
oh my God that's right let me this is
why this show is so
D do you understand this is science this
is what makes it so awesome why' you
make he blew a gasket I'm
sorry
just
reboot okay I'm sorry all right so if
we're thinking about
future if we're thinking about getting
on and thinking about 50 100 so many
years in advance yes what you describ in
Star Messenger is the exponential growth
of our lives our inventions our ideas in
our understandings yes right so and then
you sort of frame it in a 30-year Gap
yes I'm just wondering and we return to
exponential growth because I need to
know how far away we are from being
vertical on the graph but if you took
someone from
1995 and brought them to
2025 would they be completely out of
sorts with the way we are today yeah let
me tell you why that is definitely the
case all right okay they would not know
how to function all right little things
like you sit them at a at a restaurant
and say where's the menu oh here's the
QR code they'll have no idea what that
is or what it means or what it but they
have no they don't know what social
media is they they
they barely Lucky them they barely have
an email address because those were on
the rise beginning in the 199s for the
general public the the idea that you
would have self-driving electric cars
just on the road with no driver if you
walk around La these cars are just all
over the place okay and what role the
smartphone has played in our lives
beginning from 2007 onward yeah the idea
that you can walk and talk to someone
with something smaller than the size of
a pack of cigarettes to someone on the
Riviera in in where's the Rivier French
French
French so what I'm describing is yeah
how the way we currently live and take
it for granted would be holy foreign and
exotic and unfamiliar to someone
transported from
1995 respectfully and with love I
disagree
completely be because of 95 to 2025 or
just in General a 30-year interval no
it's specifically for 1995 to 2025
because we had Star Trek we already saw
what could be we have Jules ver we had
HG Wells we had Lucian from the 2
Century ad Lucian wow yes uh he wrote I
love
Lucien well I do actually but uh he uh
was he was a guy from sort of the area
of the world which at that time was
fertile with culture and Imagination and
so forth about when was this uh about
the second century you know who else was
the second century I don't know if they
hady he wrote alag guest I do not think
it was a coincidence that's that period
of laying out the univers all the people
that Charles has named there they're
historic yes wa wait Lucien is not the
name that's the name of the Lucan is the
name of the person who wrote is credited
with writing a science fiction novel
called a true story wow W voyagers are
on a boat and they are caught in a storm
and they wind up on the moon and at the
Moon there are creatures who don't look
like humans but they're engaged in a
great War these are the as Greeks want
to be so clearly other people would be
fighting as well these are the kinds of
things that have been imagined for a
long long time and I don't think that
anyone in '95 showing up in 2025 would
go oh my gosh people are talking into a
box they'll say oh wait do that happened
in Star Trek okay how does this work and
they just tap tap tap and because
everything was built for humans by
humans they would be able to adapt
instead by aliens right right right
almost immediately because of the
commonalities of humans from 1995 to
2025 okay so now let's take it back to
and let's forget second century ad sure
which is a time of Enlightenment let's
go to a time of Darkness uh oh all right
so like
now now let's go to the Middle Ages you
know what I mean where Dark Ages Dark
Ages not the Middle Ages the Dark Ages
where we go where we're consumed by
Superstition and everything is squelched
in terms of any Enlightenment with those
people transported to
today and by the way just to be clear or
would everything be witch Chuck just to
be clear in the book I localized it to
the era of the Industrial Revolution
where you can fully expect that
inventions will change how you live
there was a period where no one expected
their great great grandchildren to be
living any differently than they did
absolutely so I don't know that you can
go that far
back you can I I'll say that because
first of all we should understand that
Dark Ages was a term coined by European
historians true in fact historians who
claim that Rome fell in the year ad
476 did not take into account what we
know to be true that other people ran
that area known as the Roman Empire in
many different ways for centuries theref
and then there was the Holy Roman Empire
that happened starting at 800 with
Charlemagne meanwhile there was an
Eastern Empire that was based at
Constantinople that's right all of that
concept and by the way uh Rome still
here today that's right I was there the
summer is a beautiful place it was very
hot still happening right so so our
sense of what history is right uh also
makes us think about predicting the past
uh what has been framed for us as the
Dark Ages was actually a period of great
Innovation and people were thinking
about a lot of things but not
necessarily in Europe in the arabic
speaking World things like algebra were
being created things like mathematics
yes Chuck you can't be talking about
what brown people did okay it doesn't
count if it didn't happen in Europe
you're making my point exactly you trer
words were never spoken see this is the
point thing you'll be telling me there
were pyramids in Africa get out of here
right I mean surely no egyptian could
ever have made these it must have been
by aliens because what Egyptians aren't
as smart as people who look like
Europeans and they couldn't do geometry
so if we use the imagination of these
authors these filmmakers yes and then we
kind of replicate some of the things
that they came up so we follow SL we
have sliding doors we first saw them in
Star Trek I first saw them in Star Trek
so yeah okay so the thing is are they
shaping the future from their position
in the past oh and we follow that great
idea great Point that's a are you asking
if we never saw sliding doors as a
future feature of our Liv would it have
been pursued and would we be trying to
open the grocery store door holding our
bags great question here here's my
thought on this we make predictions all
the time probably there are a thousand
predictions about the future that are in
the literature or um just around on
newspapers or even written down by
people from 100 years ago as Yogi bar
said it's hard to make predictions
especially about the future right but if
you make a thousand predictions one of
them will come true and we're looking
backwards you cherry pick the that and
if the future shows up with sliding
doors you go back and go hey remember
that sliding do we don't talk about
anybody who um predicted doors would go
up and down or that doors would squirrel
out but they exist you know so somebody
probably did that even though Star Trek
as a show itself didn't have door doors
that swirled out there are ways to do
this uh that we have all thought of they
just didn't dominate our society for
whatever reason okay all right let's go
to your 2050 predictions from Star
message no no by the way I I put in my
predictions so that in 2050 people can
make fun of me
well we're going to do it right now as I
highlighted everybody else exactly
everybody else's wrong predictions just
just quickly to put this in context in
the book I describe a prediction in 1900
made for the year 2000 oh and in the
year 1900 steam ships were setting
records across the ocean right railroads
crossed the continents and so in this
for the year 2000 they had a steamship
coming out of the ocean with
railroad Wheels flip down it goes
straight onto a railroad track a
railroad track and then continues on
land worst Transformer ever so this was
and another one that's just linear
thinking again it's linear thinking it's
another one also how were people getting
around through uh lighter than air
balloons derable blimps this sort of
thing so they imagine in the year 2000
everyone would have their own personal
balloons so there these balloons that
wrap under your in your armpit and you
have two
and and so it shows them sort of walking
on water kept buoyant by these by these
balloons and it's like okay cuz that's
that's that's the extent of their
imagination couldn't go much farther
than what was available that's kind of
it what was available amazing all right
one of your predictions the space
program becomes a space industry already
happened funded not by taxpayers dollars
but by space tourism and other projects
that part didn't happen well it's not
2050 yet okay dude well that what do you
think what do you think about that get
no Protec prices are not going to drop
low enough for people to want to go into
space just for the heck of it not for 30
years not for 30 years unfortunately
you're watching the prices now
extrapolating outward into the future
you just don't see that pattern
happening because right now what's
happening is that space is still
controlled by countries governments that
are willing to subsidize private
corporations once those subsidies REM
country on earth have a same equity in
the space you would hope so but at the
moment as with any other parts of the
world the dawn of flight it was very
expensive very few people was on a plane
If you flew on a plane that was like the
news of the cocktail party that you
attended and then now everybody can fly
because the plane we figured out how to
make it cheap the plane was and always
was from the very beginning in 1903 a
private Enterprise activity space has
since its beginning been a governmental
activity that's missing some information
so the rapid development of flight
between 19 call it 10 and
19230 well funded by World War I well
yes so you had you had government
investments in in in the advancement of
an advanc to Aviation and the government
wanted to deliver mail by plane right
the birth of air mail so the government
said we're going to give a contract to
whoever can out bid whoever else and you
do it and you win the I said I want the
contract so I make my plane better
because I can carry more for the same
amount of money that yours does now I
win the contract back from you and this
continues until somebody says hey I
instead of sacks of mail I can carry
sacks of people and then I can that was
the birth of commercial Aviation driven
by the government's interest in you
making a better airplane but it made
money and when we tried to do that with
the space shuttle we didn't make money
so until money is made that track will
not start and your sentence had the word
until in it fine I'm saying by 2050 the
until will happen within there I do not
think so okay that's that's what it is
so here's what I think in response to
both of you what's going to happen is
there's a lot of money floating around
in space and it's really
where there you and me let's go this
afternoon yeah I looked in the wrong
place and it's in mining and if we can
mine what's out there instead of
destroying the Earth to bring back all
these precious rare Earths that well
they wouldn't be rare Earths rare space
rare space if we can bring that back
what happens is to get there it's going
to propel the advance
so fast like a gold rush like a Gold
Rush people are going to go so crazy so
fast to get out there and get that money
that space tourism will be a natural
byproduct byproduct so not the target
but the BYOD the happen so often right I
want to read to you we don't have time
for this before we doing anyway I want
to read to you a a letter that I own all
right written December 19th 1918 oh oh I
think I know what this will be I didn't
know you were that old
no this is too Mr Allan Holly president
of the AO Club of America didn't I know
who wrote this Madison Avenue Dear Mr
Holly many thanks for your very nice
telegram remembering the 15th
anniversary of our first flight at Kitty
Hawk whoa although Wilbur as well as
myself would have preferred to to see
the
Aeroplane developed more along peaceful
lines yet I believe that its use in this
Great War will give encouragement for
its use in other ways sign sincerely
yours Orval yeah look at that and War
take the high ground and they took it to
another level pun intended um right
let's take another look self-driving
electric cars you go there and I don't
think that's in there yeah yeah that's
that's not a limb that's going to be
breaking that's well no there are people
who say that it'll never happen or
whatever people like driving and and we
already have HOV lanes right if you say
you can only go in that if it's a
self-driving car right and the
self-driving cars are going 120 M hour
three car links between each other
because they have instant reflexes and
they're not putting on makeup and
they're not texting and they're not if
they could and they still there are cars
being made right now that don't have
steering wheels so we are going to live
in a self Drive
think faster than most people do you
agree or not I think that self-driving
Vehicles will be as prevalent as public
transportation is right there will still
be private transportation for which
drivers will still Beary ab and and
listen You'll drive on the back roads
and stuff like that you'll be able to
drive your car okay but one day wa wait
wait at at some point they'll become
like horses yeah okay you can still ride
your horse there your hor is at the
Stables right you go get your horse and
you and you ride it right so so now your
car your car at the at TR garage at the
track no it's a special place where
that's what I mean back Ro who still
want to drive their car they go there
and they drive their car here's when
it's going to happen at some point you
have to make the cars talk to one
another and the road itself talk to the
car and at that point at that point you
won't be allowed to drive on the road
you want to switch lanes it tells the
other cars switching lanes and they open
up for you half all the accidents happen
that way you don't see who's in your
blind spot but building that
infrastructure into the highways and
byways is going to be so expensive dude
we went from horse drawn buggies in 1905
to you couldn't give away a horse in
1915 with gas stations and paved roads
for automobile tires and that happened
in 10 years I don't know if you've
noticed lately but things are bit more
expensive yes and there are still
Millions ofet you want societ science
science side of science there are still
millions of square miles of North
America where there isn't high-speed
internet
so you got to remember that these are
very Regional Solutions right now we can
extrapolate on what's going to happen in
New York City but the driving from
laramy Wyoming to Fargo North Dakota is
not likely to be the same as driving
there's no La Sunset Boulevard 195 many
of those Farmers still had horsedrawn
tractors yes so it but I'm talking about
we're talking about the entire world
you're going to have we're talking about
the freeway system a highway system in
the United States right it's going to be
limited to certain areas AF Neuroscience
will Advanced so far we understand the
human Minds well enough that mental
illness will be cured you've also gone
into developing antiviral serum and
cures cancer do we feel that some
cancers yes absolutely so with the
neuros science which is still kind of in
its infancy so I have very high
expectations for it psychologist hate it
when I say this but I mean it with love
that to me psychology is to Neuroscience
what Alchemy is to chemistry how can you
mean that with
love like Hey listen I like what you're
doing but one day you're just out of
work okay just know this you are you got
someone on the couch and you for months
and months and months trying to cure
their illness the neuroscientist said
where is it oh it's a nip tuck right
here there's a neuros synaptic thing
there and they and Tuck and you're done
and you're out and no one is on the
street crazy there no insane asylums is
this where we get to implants that that
just bypasses point I I don't I don't
know if it's surgery or implants or that
are removable then you go back to your
original state so let's look at AI let's
look at the influence AI will have in
the world of medicine is this now us
getting to a more vertical line on on
the exponential the line always looks
vertical when you're at that end of the
exponential it's always looks vertical
to you like all the advancements happen
in recent years but I want to get to the
to the AI point to the extent that can
help with medicines I think one of my
predictions was we have medicines that
this is not some new prediction I'm just
echoing what's already been floating
around but I'm putting a Tim stamp on it
that medicine will be tuned to your
genetic profile so that there are zero
side effects yes you did make that yes
and one if we know your why is it that
you break out in hives and you you don't
ingesting the same chemical there's
something different about your genetic
profile or your hormonal profile we will
know that understand it so that side
effects will be a thing of the past
that's one of the predictions you do
make that prediction I'll get in there
yes uh I think what will happen is that
we'll be able to control behaviors very
well by 2050 right but we still won't be
able to cure the diseases by 2050 you
there's a lot to you think eventually
just not by 2050 yes okay it's an issue
of when we are able now technologically
did you say when no I said when good
thank you do you say cool whip it
depends if I'm speaking totin
[Music]
or yes and I never like cool in in in a
quarter Century we'll be able to help
everybody who have behavioral problems
solve their behaviors but that doesn't
necessarily mean we'll have solved their
diseases and that is what I would like
to see so that means they'll be living
with the disease controlled by some
medication or implant rather than have
it removed from them entirely that's my
opinion is it safe to say that going
forward into the future the changes will
happen even quicker that is the nature
of being on an exponential that's that's
my point yeah that that there's no doubt
if you look at the pace of patents the
pace of research papers the doubling
times are which is how you know you're
on an exponential are they've been
consistent over the decades so what that
means is in a few years there'll be
double the number of research papers on
a subject in a field than has appeared
up until that point that's that's how
you know you're on an exponential and
the caveat is sometimes the exponentials
turn over there's a period of
exponential growth followed by a
leveling off right for example the human
population Thomas malus a couple hundred
years ago predicted that if you do
exponential growth soon there will be so
many people in the world that there will
be not enough food production ever but
now we know that our predictions and
here's one that we could test in 30
years 30 years from now the exponential
growth of the human population will turn
over we're going to top out worldwide
around 10 billion and stock yeah but
that's but you gave the wrong actually
start falling as it has in many places
already people have already made those
hold on you put a cart in front of a
horse there oh okay mouth is is wrong
not because we our exponential growth of
the population will level off at 10
billion he's wrong because we applied
science to farming so that now we are
producing more food on less land with
fewer Farmers than ever before that's
why he was wrong he did not imagine that
farm production would ever become more
uh efficient or more voluminous than it
was at the time and he was just doing a
linear extrapolation against the
population of the planet we are a wash
in food anyone who was starving in the
world how much of our food goes to work
a third of it or something I saw the
numbers so anyone who's starving it's
not because the world doesn't have food
to feed them there's some geopolitical
circumstance that prevents it so nobody
like my predictions no a good predic
last time I I credit you for being brave
enough to step there yeah and I even got
some critiques in the moment give me
each of you one final prediction about
something that you would like us to know
see so here's my prediction for it's
going to go don't confuse what you want
to be true from what will likely be true
this is my honest assessment not my
desire good okay that we are at a global
Tipping Point with respect to democracy
globally and it's either going to be
that people want to govern themselves
through Democratic processes or that
we're all so sleep that uh we descend
into authoritarianism worldwide and if
we do getting back is going to take so
many generations none of us will be here
to see it Gary a prediction that we find
a desire to fully engage with climate
change because the KnockOn effect has
influence on so many Global societies we
we're suffering for climate migration
we're suffering from rising sea levels
and if we can bring the desire to
challenge and tackle that positively I
think that will be something we can all
look to as step I hope you're right so
do I but I'm not sure that we
will I hope we find the desire that
would be great by the way a little known
fact because I only realized this months
ago when I first saw Steven Spielberg's
movie AI M from the 1990s there's an
entire sustained scene underwater yeah
and you go underwater and there's a
Statue of Liberty completely submerged
yes so they already took climate change
they did to the limit at the time that
movie was supposed to take place and
that was just a side fact real movie was
about the AI that they were creating so
cool man yeah once once again it's take
it to the extreme to make the example to
make you
think you do not create the future that
they invented for years all right what's
your best prediction that within 25
years there will be a professional sport
played in orbit
wo satellite shooting shot headlights be
look at that yeah Space Balls there you
go
[Laughter]
I like that yes cuz we you know Chuck is
our geek and chief when we talk about
sports too oh yeah so when that happens
you you this will be the first thing you
do we'll do it after you can do an
episode on your own podcast Universe I
appreciate that thank you so much zero g
BK all right we got to we got to wrap
this up dude I enjoyed this
topic come up with these cool topics for
special edition is great yeah I have
time on my hands
okay all right dude Charles Chuck Gary
thanks for this has been Star Talk
special edition Neil degrass Tyson as
always bidding you to keep looking up
[Music]